 We are coming to you with a new episode of tech news that happened this past week. Let me tell you, this past week was one that you really had to hold on for. It was kind of, scratch kind of, it was wild. Elon Musk, of course, was in a lot of headlines from open sourcing his upcoming AI, which we'll get into, to suing OpenAI. I mean, him alone, we can make a video on, but we're not going to. We will cover that though. There are so many other things that you need to be aware of that happened in tech this past week around AI, coding, tech, and more. All right, let's get into it. What do the young kids say? Let's get into spilling the tea. Oh, that's so cheesy. You get what I mean though. Let's start off with, as I mentioned, Elon Musk. And this week, actually today, as I am filming this, he recently announced that his chatbot, Grok, is going to be open source. Now this is different because a lot of the other chatbots we have seen, such as Gemini, let's go into, is not open source. So the fact that this is going to be open source, for the public to gain access to, is, well, huge. But let me explain why. By open sourcing his chatbot, here's what I would really do for people. One, it would be to see what is going on behind the scenes. What exactly is this code made up of? What is this large language model made up of? It will really promote transparency, open web, all this around AI, which we have yet to see. This could go in two ways. One, being very positive. People have access to this information, build upon it, and have a better understanding. This could be a great way to build these chatbots, which in turn, better educated, makes informed decisions. On the other side though, it could do a bit of the opposite, whereas, yes, we have this information, we know how they work. What could we do now with this information being open source? Now I think this side, there's less to fear about. I mean, if it's open source, I am sure they have their bases covered that what they are sharing in the open source community is fine to be sharing. But it does bring up this major question, which is, should chatbots like Grok, like Gemini, like ChatGPT, be open source? What do you think about this? Leave in the comments. All right, keeping up with Elon Musk, this is our last one, I promise. So if you love him, great. If you hate him, still good to be informed. Which is this week, he sued OpenAI. I mean, yes, he is the master of headline generators, but it's really important to understand why he did this. And when you realize why he did this, it kind of makes you question everything about OpenAI, at least to certain degrees. He sued OpenAI because they did not, according to him or apparently, what he is saying, is they did not keep up with their promise or mission to remain nonprofit and open source. So when you really start to think about why he did this, I don't think he really thinks in his heart of hearts that anything will come from suing them. But I do believe he is very aware that the media would gain onto this. And then in turn, us as consumers and individuals would take a look at, oh, wait, yeah, OpenAI really isn't that open source. It isn't really not for profit, which is really interesting to look at. Now, another thing that's really important to note here is Elon Musk is coming for OpenAI. I think this is really the tip of it. The chatbot wars will continue, especially now as he releases Grok compared to now chat with GPT, compared to Gemini and others. Okay, time for something different. Let's switch gears here. And I thought this was kind of, well, interesting to say the least, which is Google employee is charged with stealing AI trade secrets. Yes, you heard that right. That's a really bold move, I have to say, on this employee's part. Charged with stealing AI trade secrets. All right, so what really happened here? So this is a Google employee. They were charged on Tuesday with stealing AI trade secrets from Google, working with two Chinese-based companies in the AI industry. So this individual, a 38-year-old who lives in California, is accused of copying more than 500 files with confidential information from Google into his own personal account. This is a bold move. I mean, this started, they say, back in 2022. So this has been going on for a while. And this isn't just like your typical case. I feel like there might be a movie made out of this, because here's why. Actually, the FBI were involved. This is the level that this was getting to. So Google goes on to say they have strict safeguards to prevent the theft and are confidential commercial information and trade secrets. Of course. So here is this individual, 38 years old, working from home, dealing with Google's trade secrets, putting them into his own computer. Really curious, though, what was he doing with that information? What was the end goal here? That we don't know, but I do believe it will come out soon. That's just something really interesting on the side. I mean, listen, if you lack confidence, look at this individual. Don't do what he's doing. But the amount of confidence that would take to do. All right, let's move into something not AI related, which is security, cybersecurity. This is pretty interesting. Russian hackers stole Microsoft's source code, and they're saying the attack isn't over. This is wild. Listen to this. Okay, so back in January this year, so what, two months ago, there was this big attack. And we, I think a lot of us were familiar with this. Microsoft had an attack. From some Russian hackers, and it kind of went quiet after that. We never really heard what happened to it or where it went. Now, what is coming to light is they actually were able to gain access to some source code. And this is where it affects you, potentially. They also gained access to some customer secrets. But here's the thing. The reality is it's interesting when these hacks happen, whether it be through with Microsoft or other major tech companies, they often are so quiet about it initially. Which I get why, but as a consumer, it's one of those things that then later comes out in the news, or we see an article, and we're kind of not thinking about it, that, oh, by the way, your data was impacted, or potentially impacted anyways. And it can bring kind of an almost icky feeling, where if it was right when it happened, transparent, this is going on, I think the public would react better. So here is what was shared with Hacker News. Microsoft's breach by Midnight Blizzard, the hacker group, is a strategic blow. Midnight Blizzard isn't some small-time criminal gang. They are highly professional, Russian-backed outfit that fully understands the value of the data they've exposed, and how to best use it to inflict harm. So this is really interesting. This is far from over, but it's something to be very aware of. And as you are keeping up to date with tech news, keeping that hack in mind, just to see where it ends up going. All right, those are some of the biggest things to happen in tech this past week. It was, I mean, big. I got to say, Elon Musk does take the cake, the win, whatever you want to call it, for really keeping up in the media and news. There was some wild things. But on that note, I'm curious to get your take. How closely are you following this? How are you following these different kind of tech news updates from Elon Musk to security to hacking? Where are you at with all this? Do you enjoy being up to date with it in a very quick, concise video like this? Leave in the comments, and I will always keep you up to date with the latest tech news, updates, you know, all that good stuff. So you don't have to read and spend all your time doing so. Oh, and hit that subscribe button. All right, see you all soon. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.